the addition of secrecy to the transformations producedcryptography. true, it was more of a game than anything else—it soughtto delay comprehension for only the shortest possible time, not thelongest—and the cryptanalysis was, likewise, just a puzzle. egypt's wasthus a quasi cryptology in contrast to the deadly serious science of today.yet great things have small beginnings, and these hieroglyphs didinclude, though in an imperfect fashion, the two elements of secrecy andtransformation that comprise the essential attributes of the science. andso cryptology was born. in its first 3,000 years, it did not grow steadily. cryptology aroseindependently in many places, and in most of them it died the deaths ofits civilizations. in other places, it survived, embedded in a literature,and from this the
next generation could climb to higher levels.but progress was slow and jerky. more was lost than retained. much of thehistory of cryptology of this time is a patchwork, a crazy quilt ofunrelated items, sprouting, flourishing, withering. only toward thewestern renaissance does the accreting knowledge begin to build up amomentum. the story of cryptology during these years is, in other words,exactly the story of mankind. china, the only high civilization of antiquity to use ideographicwriting, seems never to have developed much real cryptography —perhaps for that reason. in one case known for military purposes, the11th-century compilation, wu-ching tsung-yao ("essentials from militaryclassics"), recommended a true if small code. to a list of 40 plaintextitems, ranging from requests for bows and arrows to the report of avictory, the correspondents would assign the first 40 ideograms of apoem. then, when a lieutenant wished, for example, to request morearrows, he was to write the corresponding ideogram at a specified placeon an ordinary dispatch and stamp his seal on it.in china's great neighbor to the west, india, whose civilizationlikewise developed early and to high estate, several forms of secretcommunications were known and, a pparently, practiced. the artha-sastra, a classic work on statecraft attributed to kautilya, in describingthe espionage service of india as practically riddling the country withs pies, recommended that the officers of the institutes of £ spionage givetheir spies their assignments by secret writing.perhaps most interesting to cryptologists, amateur orprofessional, is that vatsyayana's famous textbook of erotics, the kamasutra,lists secret writing as one of the 64 arts, or yogas, that womenshould know and practice. the fourth great civilization of antiquity, themesopo-tamian, rather paralleled egypt early in its cryptographicevolution, but then surpassed it. thus, in the last period of cuneiformwriting, in colophons written at uruk (in present-day iraq) under theseleucid kings in the last few score years before the christian era,occasional scribes converted their names into numbers. theencipherment—if such it be—may have been only for amusement or toshow off.